# Azure Environments

Azure Environments is an alternative to the old Deployment Groups feature, meant for deploying an application to a target machine in a way that is highly configurable, resource independent and offers a lot of functionality in tandem with Multistage Pipelines.

## Exercise 1: Create the environments

### Goal

The goal of this exercise is to create two Azure Environments from the Azure Portal, one for each deployment stage, as well as configure approvals between the two stages.

### Steps

#### Create the envirnment agents

1. In the Azure Devops portal, in your project, the left-hand menu bar, navigate to *Pipelines* -> *Environments*. Click Create Environment. Choose **Virtual Machines**. Name the Environment "my-project-test". Leave the default Provider and OS.
2. Under "Registration script", copy the code snippet and run it in an Administrator Powershell window. This will install the agent and configure it. Afterwards you should see the agent in the portal.
3. Create another environment named "my-project-prod" and install an agent using the same process. You should now have two environments with one agent each.

#### Create the variable groups

Each agent needs a variable group with identical fields, if we are going to use a data driven deployment model.

4. In the left-hand menu bar, navigate to *Pipelines* -> *Library*.
5. Create two variable groups, one named "my-project-vars-test" and another named "my-project-vars-prod". Add a variable called "text_to_print" to both, and give them some unique (different) values.

#### Set up the approval process

We need an approval process to minimize the risk that we deploy non produciton-ready code to the prod environment.

6. Under *Environments*, click the prod environment. Click the top-right "More actions" button, and click *Approvals and checks*.
7. Add a new approval. Add yourself as the only approver.

### Review

We have just created an Azure Environment for every stage in our deployment lifecycle. We created separate variable groups and set up an approval process.


## Exercise 2: Deploy some sample text

### goal

We will now create a pipeline which will perform a mock application deployment by copying some text to our target machine.

### steps

1. Create a new repo under *Repos* under your project.
2. Create a new file, name it "deployment-template.yml". Paste the following yaml snippet:

```yaml
parameters:
- name: stage 
  type: string

jobs:
  - deployment:
    displayName: 'Deploy in ${{parameters.stage}}'
    variables:
      - group: 'my-project-vars-${{parameters.stage}}'
    environment:
      name: 'my-project-${{parameters.stage}}'
      resourceType: virtualMachine
    strategy:
      runOnce:
        deploy:
          steps:
          - task: PowerShell@2
            inputs:
              targetType: 'inline'
              script: |
                mkdir C:\website-$(parameters.stage)
                echo $(text_to_print) > C:\website-$(parameters.stage)\index
```

3. Create a new Pipeline with the following yaml:

```yaml
stages:
- stage: DeployTest
  displayName: 'Deploy, Test'
  condition: succeeded()
  jobs:
  - template: /deployment-template.yml
    parameters:
      stage: 'test'
        
- stage: DeployProd
  displayName: 'Deploy, Prod'
  condition: succeeded()
  jobs:
  - template: /deployment-template.yml
    parameters:
      stage: 'prod'
```

4. Execute the pipeline. Afterwards you should have a folder in your C:\ directory called "website-test", with a file called index, the content of which is the value that you set in the variable group for the test environment.
5. Open the previous pipeline execution. Scroll down to where you see the stages. Note that you have a pending review. Click it and complete the review. This should trigger the next stage.
6. After the pipeline has run, you whould have the same folder in your C:\ directory from the prod environment.

### Review
We have just set up a multistage deployment that uses our environments to copy some text to our target machine.
