# Upgrade Azure Devops

## Exercise 1: Upgrade the Azure DevOps server

### Goal

In this exercise you will upgrade the Azure Devops installation to a newer version.

### Steps

Following the installation of the Azure Devops 2020, we will now do an in-place upgrade to version 2020.1.

0. Make sure that you made a database backup (See lab 4).

1. (Optional) Run *tfs-apptier* to check the Azure Devops service settings (e.g. http/https, ports, database size). In a real scenario you would go here to verify the network settings and wether or not there is enough disk space for the upgrade.

2. Start the Azure Devops Admin Console.

3. Under *Application Tier* -> *Team Project Collections*, disable all active collections. Now users will not be able to access the Azure Devops portal.

4. Make note of the configuration under *Application Tier* in the Azure Devops Admin Console, for example by taking a screenshot and saving it.

5. Now mount the 2020.1 iso file in C:/Install, and start the installation. At each step of the wizard, set the parameters to match the previous configuration that you took note of.

6. When the installation finishes, enable all collections again in the Azure Devops Admin Console.

7. Navigate to http://localhost in the browser and verify that the Azure Devops portal loads correctly.

8. (Optional) Take a look at the 2020.1 release notes to find out about what new features have been added. Explore the new features in your environment if you like! https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/server/release-notes/azuredevops2020u1?view=azure-devops

### REVIEW

In this exercise you have upgraded the Azure Devops 2020 installation to version 2020.1.
