# Git Administration
Create and connect to a Git Repository

## Prerequisites
You will need one or more of the following software installed, depending on which method you are going to use to connect to the team project and repository.
* Visual Studio
* Visual Studio Code
* Git for Windows

## Exercise: Connect using Visual Studio
This exercise applies only if you have Visual Studio installed. If not, try one of the subsequent exercises instead.

### Goal
You will connect to the team project using Visual Studio Team Explorer and make a local clone of a repository.

### Tasks

## Exercise: Connect using VS Code

### Goal
You will use Visual Studio Code to connect to the team project and clone a Git repository.

## Exercise: Set up SSH credentials

### Goal
You will prepare a SSH key pair to authenticate with a Git repository and attempt a clone.

### Tasks
1. If you don't already have a SSH key pair that you wish to use you must create one with the ```ssh-keygen``` command. You should find the files id_rsa and id_rsa.pub

1. Add the contents of the public key file (usually called id_rsa.pub) to you Azure DevOps user profile security settings.

1. Find the repository URL in the web interface and use the SSH format to clone it to your computer.

1. If your server is using self-signed certificates it is expected that the clone operation will fail. The next exercise will present a solution.

## Exercise: Resolve SSL Issues

If the server you're connecting to is using a self-signed certificate you need to install the same certificate on the client computer for the SSL connection to validate.

### Goal
After performing the following tasks you will be able to clone the repository without problems.

### Tasks
1. Export the server root CA certificate in base-64 encoded form.

1. Install the certificate on your client computer.

1. Git for Windows version 2.14 introduced the option of using the Windows Certificate Stores as a source of certificates for SSL validation. This can be enabled during installation of Git for Windows. If this option was not chosen, it can be enabled afterwards: ```git config --global --replace-all http.sslBackend schannel```
