# Process templates

In this lab you will as a Azure DevOps administrator change the process template by making changes in XML and using the Process Editor.


## Getting ready

Log on to the machine as **Administrator** with password **P2ssw0rd**.


## Exercise 1: Creating a new workitem type

### Goal 
In this exercise you will learn how create a new work item type. 

1. Download the Agile process template from Azure DevOps
2. Create a new work item 
* Copy the Work Item type Task (task.xml)
* Rename it SupportCase.xml
* Change "WORKITEMTYPE Name" in the xml to SupportCase
* Add the new type to workitems.xml
* Add a new field to  SupportCase.xml (both in FIELDS and FORM)
3. Upload your modified process template with the process template manager 
4. Create a new Team Project and verify that your changes are there. 

### REVIEW 
In this task you have created a new work item type. 

## Exercise 2: Changing the assigned to field

### Goal 
Sometimes you don't want to have all Azure DevOps users in the Assigned to field of a work item, you will in this lab learn how to change this. 


1. Start the Process Template Editor from Visual Studio  
2. Select Work Item Types, Open WIT from ServerOpen the task Work Item 
* Go to FIELDS, Assigned to, Rules
* Remove VALIDUSERS
* Add the rule ALLOWEDVALUES
* Add [Project]\Contributors to the list
* Add the rule ALLOWEXISTINGVALUES 
* Save your Work Item. 
3. Verify change 

### REVIEW 
In this task you have learned how to change the assigned to field. 


## Exercise 3: Adding a new field to a work item

### Goal 
In this lab you will learn how to add a new field to a work item 


1. Start the Process Template Editor from Visual Studio  
2. Select Work Item Types, Open WIT from ServerOpen the task Work Item 
* Go to the FIELDS tab of the Work Item you changed and add a new field
* Go to the LAYOUT tab and add the new field
* Save your Work Item 
4. Verify the change

### REVIEW 
In this task you have learned how add a new field to a work item 

## Exercise 4: Changing the Columns in the Product Backlog List

### Goal 
In this lab you will add a column "Effort" to the backlog list. 

| 1 Command prompt | Open a VS 2019 developer command prompt as an administrator |
| 2 Run witadmin | Run the command witadmin exportprocessconfig /p:&quot; **myProject**&quot; /collection:http://localhost:8080/tfs /f:exportprocessconfig.xml |
| 3 Modify | Edit exportagileprocessconfig.xml and add Business value\&lt;ProductBacklog\&gt;    ...    \&lt;Columns\&gt;      \&lt;Columnwidth=&quot;400&quot;refname=&quot;System.Title&quot; /\&gt;      \&lt;Columnwidth=&quot;100&quot;refname=&quot;System.State&quot; /\&gt;      \&lt;Columnwidth=&quot;50&quot;refname=&quot;Microsoft.VSTS.Scheduling.Effort&quot; /\&gt;      \&lt;Columnwidth=&quot;100&quot;refname=&quot;Microsoft.VSTS.Common.BusinessValue&quot; /\&gt;      \&lt;Columnwidth=&quot;200&quot;refname=&quot;System.IterationPath&quot; /\&gt;    \&lt;/Columns\&gt;  \&lt;/ProductBacklog\&gt;  |
| 4 Save changes | Run the command witadmin importprocessconfig /p:&quot; **myproject**&quot; /collection:http://localhost:8080/tfs /f:exportprocessconfig.xml |
| 5 Verify change | Verify that you have a new column in the backlog  |

### REVIEW 
In this task you have learned how add a columns to the backlog 

## Exercise 5: Adding States to the Task board

### Goal 
Here we will add a new column "Ready For Test" to boards 

1. Open boards in your project
2. Select the wheel to the right
| 5 Verify change | Verify that you have a new column in the Task board  |

### REVIEW 
In this task you have learned how add a columns to the task board 
