# Process templates

In this lab you will as a Azure DevOps administrator create and modify an inherited process using the Azure DevOps Web Pportal admin interface.

## Getting ready

Log on to the AT machine as **Administrator** with password **P2ssw0rd**.

## Exercise 1: Creating an inherited process

### Goal
In this exercise you will learn how create a new inherited process. 

1. Choose the Azure DevOps logo to open Projects.
2. Choose Admin settings.
3. Choose Process.
4. Create an inherited process 
* From the Process page, open the … context menu of the process you will use to create an inherited process, and then choose Create inherited process.
* Enter a name for your process and optionally a description.
* Click &quot;Create process&quot; button

### REVIEW 
In this task you have created a new inherited process. 


## Exercise 2: Adding a new field to a work item

### Goal 
In this lab you will learn how to add a new field to a work item 


1. From the Process page of the newly created inherited process, choose the work item type you want to add the custom field to  |
2. With the WIT selected, choose the "New field".
3. Define field 
* In the "Add a field to" window, choose the Definition tab.
* Select the "Create a field" option
* Choose a name and type for your field
* (Optionally) Look through the Options and Layout tabs and make any desired changes there. 
Click on the &quot;Add field&quot; button.The field is now available in all projects based on this inherited process. |

### REVIEW 
In this task you have learned how add a new field to a work item 

## Exercise 3: Review further customization options

### Goal 
In this lab you will familiarize yourself with more customization options for an inheritance processes and what cannot be customized. 


1. Open this link in any browser:[https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/settings/work/inheritance-process-model?view=azure-devops-2019&amp;tabs=agile-process#field-customizations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/settings/work/inheritance-process-model?view=azure-devops-2019&amp;tabs=agile-process#field-customizations) 
2. Pay special attention to the "What you can't customize" sections. These things are often customizable in the (legacy) XML based process templates... 

### REVIEW In this task you have familiarized yourself with more customization options for inheritance processes and what cannot be customized 
